City of Safeton Index
=====================

### The Marine Quarter

Of these, the Marine Quarter is the oldest, standing atop a low rise on the site of the original settlement. Cloistered away from the rest of the city by the Old Wall, the vast majority of the buildings in this district are of stone; many are centuries old as evidenced by the sagging lintels, listing arcades and weathered facades. The stone mansions of the Old Families and other wealthy burghers, past and present, stand here.   There is an air of decrepit wealth and faded glories in the Marine Quarter. With the signing of the Pact of Association, the Old Families have found themselves sidelined in the running of the city. Turin Deathstalker moved quickly to conscript their private militias into the city levy. Though many of the militia men remain loyal to their old paymasters, they are no longer at liberty to bend the city to their will as once they used. Though grateful that their home has not shared the fate of the other cities of the Wild Coast, the Old Families resent Turin’s rule. However, very few are so suicidal as to consider doing anything bar grumble about it. Turin’s fearsome reputation ensures that he has the full, if somewhat sullen, cooperation of Safeton’s nobility.   Deprived of the distractions of power, many scions of the gentry have turned to other pursuits – decadent hedonism, competitions for gold, love or honour and even adventuring. While this last practice has dramatically trimmed some of the noble family trees, others have found fortune and glory – notably the vivacious Mirava Atesh, who scandalized her wealthy family when, barely a debutante, she ran off to seek the life of the freesword. Somewhere in her travels in the realms of the Sheldomar, she acquired herself an Olman lover and a horde of gems that has allowed her to settle in a mansion of her own in the Marine Quarter. In recent times, Mirava has concentrated on forays into the orc-occupied lands to the south – especially the cities of Fax and Badwall. She has recovered many heirlooms and other valuable items lost in the sack of those settlements. As a result, she has many allies among the refugee communities in Safeton.   A number of the city’s main temples are located in the Marine Quarter. Suloise gods predominate. An impressive domed cathedral is dedicated to Kord, who is hailed as the patron of the city. The waterfront temples of Osprem and Xerbo are well attended, unsurprisingly. The smoke of funeral pyres marks out the chapel of Wee Jas while a beautiful shrine to Lydia enjoys the patronage of many of the nobility.   The Marine Quarter also houses the headquarters of the Greyhawk Militia and the Hardby marines. The Military Governor and Militia occupy a large fortified manor compound close to the Militia Gate, aptly enough. The Marines occupy the Marine Keep at the northern end of the Quarter. They are responsible for the seaward defenses of the city. Safeton is the homeport to three of the Marines’ warships, which have their berths along the Great Wharf.   1) Mirava Atesh’s Mansion   2) The Marines occupy the Marine Keep 50-100 Hardby Marines   3) Shrine to Lydia This shrine is depicted as a dynamic, white-haired woman with clear blue eyes. She wears a white gown trimmed in silver and gold.   4) Domed cathedral dedicated to Kord High Cleric: Adonan Carter   5) Temple of Osprem High Cleric: Iriestina Droverson (human female)   6) The smoke of funeral pyres marks out the chapel of Wee Jas   7) The Military Governor Xavkas Chorster   8) Greyhawk Militia and Hardby Marines Large fortified manor compound occupied by 550 Greyhawk militiamen and 50 Marines   9) The Sealsalt Inn. Owner Greg Aniston   10) The Drunken Sailor   11) Temple of Xerbo (waterfront)   12) The Little Mermaid Horgeon Arroway   13) Old Family 1   14) Old Family 2   15) Wealthy burgher   16) Wealthy burgher   17) Turin’s Mansion   18) Slave hold   19) Jail/Courthouse   The Dock Quarter   Nighttime curfews outside the notorious Dock District   To the south of the Marine Quarter, the Dock Quarter lies enclosed within its own walls. A filthy, and dangerous, slum the area serves as Safeton’s port, the rest of the waterfront being too shallow for sea-going cargo ships to load and unload. The shore is lined with wooden wharves and warehouses. The Custom House is the single forlorn outpost of authority on the waterfront, but even here the officials are hopelessly corrupt.   Between the shore and the Old Wall, there sprawls a bewildering network of narrow rat-run alleys lined with taverns, brothels, flophouses, drug dens, bear pits and gambling dens. There are few things that cannot be bought in the Dock Quarter. Life is cheap and virtue scarce. Even the Militia do not attempt to enforce law and order here. The real authority lies in the hands of the gang bosses who have carved the quarter up into a patchwork of rival territories. Each gang gets a cut of all the businesses operating on their turf in return for protection – from other gangs and from themselves. Though they are bound by a loose code of rules, skirmishes between gangs are frequent. Territorial boundaries are fluid, shifting with the fortunes of various gangs.   In past times, the Old Families tolerated the gangs so long as they did not cause too much trouble. If the gangs overstepped that line, the nobles were apt to punish them severely, even to the point of setting the Dock Quarter ablaze to clear it of “troublesome elements.” Today, even the most violent and depraved gang bosses would scarcely dream of crossing the Military Governor. In return, Turin generously grants the bosses the liberty to remain among the living and run the Docks as they always have.   Shrines to baneful gods such as Pyremius, Syrul and Beltar can be found in the Dock Quarter, where they are well-patronized by the locals.   20) The Custom House (on the waterfront) 20-30 Militia   21) Shrine of Pyremius,   22) Shrine of Syrul   23) Shrine of Beltar   26) Silver and Dagger Inn owner Panaver Fiedlerson   27) Pricilla’s Home of Pleasure (whore house)   28) Low Life Tavern   29) The Adventurer’s Den Stock up on any basic equipment   30) The Gnome’s Lair   31) Lucky Jack’s (gambling casino)   32) The Smoldering Cauldron Stock on potions, magic user items, etc   33) Broken Signpost Basic Goods   34) The High and Low Drug den   The Freeman’s Quarter The Freeman’s Quarter lies west of the Marine Quarter, just outside the Old Wall. As the name suggests, it is home to the city’s artisans, merchants and other tradesmen. Safeton’s many guilds have their halls here and for the moment business is good. Many of the guilds are involved in some fashion or another with the rebuilding of Narwell and a steady flow of finished goods flows Narwell-wards out of Northgate.   Safeton’s famed sage guild with its extensive library – the nucleus of which is believed to be several dozen tomes carried from the ruin of the Suel Imperium – also has its guildhall here. The premises of scribes, wise men and scholars line the small square (known locally as the Ink Well) upon which the ancient domed hall stands.   The Freeman’s Quarter is probably the safest of Safeton’s wards. Militia patrols are frequent and both Pelor and Mayaheine have temples here. The Shield Maiden’s chapel resembles a small keep built into the city wall just west of Northgate. The officious but competent Bendel – paladin of Mayaheine wards her flock well and occasionally assists the militia in their duties. The Sun Father’s Hall stands at the southern boundary of the quarter. The long low building sits atop a small rise. A long, colonnaded walkway runs the east/west length of the building. A cunning array of polished golden shields brilliantly illuminates the interior during the prayers of the Dawngreeting.   Guilds (line the small square known locally as the Ink Well)   35) The Guild of Sages   36) The Guild of Adventurers   37) The Guild of Architecs and Stone Masons   38) The Guild of Bakers and Cooks   39) The Butchers Guild   40) The Guild Dockers and Wharfmen’s Union   41) The Guild of Embalmers and Gravediggers   42) The Guild of Gemcutters and Jewelers   43) The Laborers Union   44) The Beggars Union   45) The Guild of Leatherworkers, Tanners, Smiths, and Stablers   46) The Merchants and Traders Unions   47) The Union of Moneychangers and Pawnbrokers Yenice Strifeminer (male, dwarf)   48) Warehouse   49) The Guild of Lawyers and Scribes   50) Marshalls Swords and More   51) Bobby’s Plate and Chain   52) Temple of Pelor Southern boundary of the quarter. The long low building High Cleric: Alunda Pegason   53) Temple of Mayaheine Resembles a small keep built into the city wall just west of Northgate-Bendel Paladin of Mayaheine)   54) Stafler’s Cakes   The Low Quarter South of the Freeman’s Quarter lies a marshy bowl of land known as the Low Quarter, which houses Safeton’s poor – unskilled laborers, freed slaves and the like. The largest of Safeton’s wards, it sprawls westward from the Long March – the paved street that runs directly under the Old Wall. The Long March is so named because condemned prisoners are paraded along the street before being burned at the stake in the plaza that stands before the aptly named Black Gate. Drover’s Row runs west from the Black Gate, ending in the Kine Market. Home to Safeton’s livestock market, as well as its butchers and tanners, this stinking, muddy expanse of open ground once stood right at the edge of the city until it was enclosed by the New Wall.   Traditionally home to Safeton’s poor, swathes of the Low Quarter are covered in wooden shacks and shanties. Here and there, crumbling stone tenements loom above the shanties. In many places, the narrow streets and alleyways are almost completely overhung by sagging, dangerously over-crowded buildings. The inner (and more dilapidated) reaches of the quarter are akin to a chaotic maze.   55) Take Your Chances Mate (Gambling) Run by a male gnome: Belice Foechuckle   56) Temple of Ralishaz A small temple of Ralishaz has sprung up within and more sinister powers are no doubt worshipped elsewhere in the darker recesses of the ward. Small, shabby, one-story building avoided by nearly everyone, though many throw copper commons into the large clay urn that sits by the roadside in front, in hopes of keeping disaster away. It is the sole temple of Ralishaz in the city, tended by six minor clerics Main Cleric: Yentiln Fiedlerson   57) The Low Life Inn   58) Feldas Flop House Owner: Aliella Carter (female human)   59) Butcher   60) Tanner   61) Servant Agency Offers trained and obedient servants for the city’s wealthier clients. Butlers, maids, cooks, laborers, gardeners, valets, and most other kinds of servants can be had on a temporary or permanent basis. Many in the city regard a job with this business as their only chance for a better life. The agency is careful to screen prospective servants to get only the best of them, those who are reasonably trustworthy and polite. Manager: Pangold Silentall (Male Halfling)   62) The Leaky Barrel   63) The Screaming Harpy Inn Two-story inn managed by a dwarf from Cairn Hills: Panice Ironhouse   64) The Mad Trader   65) The Snake and Wyvern   66) Lady Xerba’s Fortune Telling

* * *