Player Starter Class: PALADINS
==============================

For information on the churches and organizations within the Viscounty of Verbonoc click on this link  
[Player Starter Class: Cleric and Paladins](player-starter-class3A-cleric-and-paladins-article.md) 

Paladins of Greyhawk holy warriors of the flanaess
--------------------------------------------------

> _Why does a god, through paladinhood, invest a mortal with a sliver of his divine essence when ostensibly a cleric could serve just as well and in the case of most gods usually does? The answer is that a paladin is more than just an embodiment of the religion and its teachings. He is also a warrior for the faith and a standard bearer of the deity in a way that most clerics cannot be. He is not the hand but the fist of the deity’s will._   -Excerpted from the commentaries of Herdan, Sage of Radigast City

Paladins account for some of the greatest adventurers in the Flanaess, and make some of the most interesting options for players. This article and others soon to follow outline the beliefs, customs, and costumes of some of the more common paladins native to the WORLD OF GREYHAWK. Each entry below details historical and philosophical information to help you create and play a holy warrior dedicated to one of Oerth’s most righteous deities.

Mayaheine
---------

Mayaheine  
(Valiants)  
_Fortitude within and Valor without  
_**Allies:** Followers of Pelor  
**Enemies:** Iuz, Fiends  
  Paladins of Mayaheine are few. Theirs is a young order of scarcely a handful of years, having arisen after the recent arrival of their patroness in the Flanaess. According to the doctrine of the faith, Mayaheine was once a mortal paladin of Pelor (albeit from another world or plane), a fact which drew many Pelorian paladins to her service upon her arrival on Oerth. While most of her paladins emerged from the ranks of existing Pelorian knighthoods, Mayaheine’s fame grows stronger with each year. Her tolerant doctrine espouses equality between men and women; as many as three in five of her holy warriors are female.   Mayaheine’s faith dedicates itself to the protection of the faithful, the good, the downtrodden, and the innocent. This goal, according to their teachings, is best accomplished by honest and honorable force of arms designed to fortify the defenseless. In so doing, the paladin becomes a human bulwark against evil. The Shield Maiden’s paladins tend toward more martial attitudes and pursuits than their Pelorian cousins, lacking the Sun God’s focus on matters of light and darkness.   Paladins of Mayaheine typically wear flowing tabards cinched at the waist with a golden cord or girdle. Proud of their burgeoning faith, most of Mayaheine’s followers wear their patron’s holy symbol emblazoned on their tabards. The paladins favor light blues, greens, and tans, but as of yet have no standardized uniform. The Shield Maiden’s valiants tend to prefer bladed weapons, particularly the bastard sword. They always carry shields.   A great degree of optimism surrounds the arrival of Mayaheine, an emotion shared and fiercely espoused by the example of her paladins. These holy warriors usually operate alone or in small groups composed of like-minded clerics and warriors. The religion has yet to develop significant sects or sub-societies. It doesn’t sport much of a hierarchy, either, although the church maintains close ties to its origins within the Pelorian faith, which leads to great cooperation between the two religions. Mayaheine’s clergy asserts that the Shield Maiden herself inhabits the Flanaess. If she does maintain an Oerthly stronghold, it has never been found. Instead, her religion is headquartered around the Nyr Dyv, with its largest chapter and training house in Hardby. Paladins of Mayaheine strengthen the front against Iuz in Furyondy and the Shield lands, doing their best to shield the helpless from the depredations of the Dark Lord of Dorakaa.  

MURLYND
-------

Murlynd  
(The White Paladins)  
_Technology is an instrument of Justice so long as the hand  
_that wields it is True  
**Allies:** Followers of Heironeous  
**Enemies:** Followers of Iuz, enemies of technology   Paladins of Murlynd are the most esoteric holy warriors in all of the Flanaess. They are in fact a distinctive and exceedingly rare sect of paladins of Heironeous and not truly consecrated by Murlynd himself (for the original White Paladin still serves the Invincible One.) However, like their infamous founder, they are an order outside regular society. They share Murlynd’s quirky interest in otherworldly mechanical devices and weapons as well as his devotion to using this technology to aid the struggle of the good and lawful against the forces of evil. While the White Paladins share strong connections to the faith of Heironeous and were likely once standard aspirants to his order, their nonconformity drew them to the teachings of Murlynd. Although their means are strange, they have a strong sense of honor and an unquenchable desire to see justice done and the wicked vanquished.   Paladins of Murlynd are all unique individuals and their appearance reflects this fact. Their eccentricity prevented them from conforming to the regular code of conduct of the faith of Heironeous and they were drawn to the strange teachings of Murlynd, the White Paladin. His followers usually wear a hodge-podge of strange armor and clothing, almost all of it self-developed and constructed for purposes, only the paladin himself knows. Foreign hats, odd breastplates, or shirts of chain in combination with leather breaches or pantaloons are common. One leather glove matched with a gauntlet might be employed in some cases, along with unusual iron-shod boots and other curious items in inscrutable combinations in others. Coloration is without limitation, although they all find a way to incorporate the six-pointed star of Murlynd. Their weapons are nearly as odd as their dress and include strange crossbows and other unique ranged weapons. The more complex or technologically oriented the weapon, the more it is desired by these paladins. The most jealously guarded inventions of the White Paladins are called firebrands, remarkable (some think magical) devices that can fire small metallic balls with sufficient force to pierce flesh and penetrate hide at great distances.   Murlynd rose to prominence in the Flanaess more than two centuries ago and accorded such luminaries as Zagyg Yragerne and Keoghtom as his contemporaries (their adventures are best recounted in the tome Tales of the Company of Seven by the mage-bard Heward). The White Paladin now shares the company of his sire, Heironeous, as well as Celestian and other deities, often traveling the planes of existence in his search for knowledge and technology that might aid his eccentric quests. Murlynd was a part of the plot (along with St. Cuthbert and the mage Zagig) that saw the demigod Iuz confined to the dungeons of Greyhawk for a time. For that effort he won the enduring enmity of the Dark Lord of Dorakaa and the White Paladin still seeks his downfall. Iuz has marked his sect for destruction. Murylnd is currently engaged in a contretemps with the fiendish St. Kargoth over a weapon known as the Quannon, which has drawn him away from Oerth for a time. To a lesser degree, Murlynd’s holy warriors share his pursuits. They travel the Flanaess in search of knowledge and technology that will aid their battle against the forces evil. Firebrands are their greatest weapons and are highly prized.  

Pelor
-----

Pelor  
(Crusaders)  
_Equity for the Meek with Perseverance and Strength  
_**Allies:** Followers of Mayaheine, followers of Heironeous, followers of Zodal  
**Enemies:** Undead, followers of Nerull  
  As Pelor is the god of goodness, strength, and healing, is it any wonder that the Sun God’s paladins are among the most passionate and ardent in their protection and defense of the weak and innocent? Pelorian paladins tend to be altruists and selfless crusaders. They set their considerable skills against the evil and darkness that threatens their charges, the innocent subjects of Oerth. Always willing to make great sacrifices to save the helpless, Pelorian paladins are revered by the underclass of the Flanaess. The paladins consider most laws helpful, but realize that laws alone do not remove suffering from the world, and that laws sometimes can be abused to become a symptom of the problem rather than a cure. To Pelorians, the emollient light of the sun is the best balm for Oerth’s ailments. Only unending perseverance and self-sacrifice can bring about true freedom and justice. Since they value goodness above all, paladins of Pelor tend to be ethically well meaning and are always morally resolute.   As paladins of Pelor can be found in nearly every nation in the Flanaess, their dress varies widely from culture to culture. Most adorn themselves in plate or chain armor and carry weapons appropriate to their needs as warriors and knights. Some few Pelorian paladins garb themselves in common dress, particularly when serving as community healers or when disguised while accomplishing goals in urban or agricultural environments. Pelorians favor light-colored tunics (especially sky blues, pale greens, or grays) when dressed informally, and always honor the Sun God with a gold orb holy symbol worn somewhere on their person, usually emblazoned on chestplates or shields. All paladins of Pelor wear a so-emblazoned inky black cloak on formal occasions or when engaging in a planned battle with the forces of darkness (such as a war). When so garbed, the Pelorians blend into the darkness, looking like floating suns charging into battle.   Pelorian paladins are eminent combatants (though never reckless) and rarely risk harm to the innocent when parley or discretion might better serve their goals. As a whole they favor no weapons over others, but individuals often focus on mastering the sword, mace, or axe over the course of their lives. The greatest among them wield legendary sunblades or maces of disruption.   Pelor’s greatest enemy was the Dark God, Tharizdun, until that power was bound from the Material Plane in time immemorial Ever since, the Lord of Light has taken on the duty of protecting mortal life from the forces of darkness and decay. “Pelor” is but the Flan name for the Sun God—the Flanaess and its rich history boast many others. Legends of the once-great Lords of Sol, a now-lost order of paladins that predates the migrations, infuse the history of the Aerdi tribes and are popular even today. The vast Solnor Ocean (literally “birthplace of the sun”) takes its name in honor of Pelor, although the usage is now archaic. By the time of the Migrations, however, most glories fell to the holy warriors of Heironeous and Hextor, who largely subsumed the traditional role of the Pelorian paladin in Oeridian society. St. Benedor of the Ashen Hand, patron of the Knight Protectors of the Great Kingdom, remains a greatly revered saint in the order of the Sun Lord.   A paladin of Pelor founded the Prelacy of Almor in the years after the Battle of a Fortnight’s Length, and while many religions flourished in what became a multifaith theocracy, Almor nevertheless boasted the largest plurality of Pelorian faithful in the Flanaess. Paladins of Pelor are sworn foes of the undead, whose presence their religion finds anathema to all living things. They despise Nerull and other dark gods that create such abominations. They reserve their greatest ire for vampire princes, death knights, and other malevolent lichforms, whom they hunt to destroy. Although most common in Nyrond, the Urnst States, and the Sheldomar Valley, Pelorian paladins can be found anywhere the innocent need of succor and protection.  

RAO
---

Rao  
(Envoys, Heralds)  
_Peace through Strength of Words and Weight of Reason  
_Allies: Followers of St. Cuthbert  
Enemies: Followers of Incabulos   Rao is the supreme deity of peace and reason. Many believe that his adherents would rather die than lift a sword in anger, preferring to outwit or outmaneuver their foes by guile or magic. The idea of a holy warrior seems foreign to the philosophy of Rao, but these are largely misunderstandings, for the god of reason knows well that peace is rarely bought cheaply. It must often be won at the point of a sword and is usually enforced through strength of arms. Therefore, in rare circumstances, paladins have been recognized and invested by the faith of Rao. Although few in number, Raoan paladins are exceedingly formidable individuals chosen for both their martial abilities and their keen wisdom and intellect. Paladins of Rao study everything they can about their opponents, learning their every vice and weakness. They are excellent negotiators and interlocutors, but if pressed they make extremely nuanced tacticians and field masters. Holy warriors of all faiths have the highest, if sometimes grudging, respect for paladins of Rao.   While the image of the “man with the swordless scabbard” pervades their legends, Raoan paladins are not masters of unarmed combat like the martial monks of some western sects. Paladins of Rao are modest individual warriors. They typically go lightly armored and often minimally armed, unless expecting the worst. Serene, patrician figures, most possess spotless manners and erudition. They favor chainmail or leather armor and light, single- handed weapons such as shortswords and maces. They rarely wear helms and almost never carry shields. Paladins of Rao typically wear grey or blue-grey tunics trimmed in white or gold and sometimes don a cowl. Rao’s symbol, the white mask of serenity, is embroidered over their chests.   Rao is an old god, whose great wisdom has long been respected by the Flan tribes of eastern Oerik and later by the migrants who poured into the Flanaess following the Twin Cataclysms. While his teachings never made large inroads among the Aerdi in the Great Kingdom, his philosophy found purchase among other Oeridian settlers, particularly the Velondi of the central Flanaess. Veluna, Furyondy, and Bissel boast the greatest concentration of Raoan paladins, although distant war zones and other sites of great conflict attract wandering Raoan warriors eager to return things to a reasonable status quo. Rao’s paladins maintain close ties to his church and have friendly relations with followers of St. Cuthbert. They have few sects, since their numbers are so few. The socalled Monks Attendant, who serve as escorts, guardians, and special agents for the Church of Rao in Veluna, enjoy the most widespread notoriety of any paladin subgroup. A rivalry between Raoan paladins and paladins and adherents of St. Cuthbert and Heironeous seems limited to the Knights of the Hart, where the conflict seems rooted in nationalism. Despite this, the former Plar of Veluna, Lord Alenar, himself a highly placed Paladin of Rao, was key in negotiating the treaty which would unite the kingdoms of Furyondy and Veluna. Successive setbacks have foiled this plan, but the paladins of Rao remain its strongest proponents.  

ST. CUTHBERT
------------

St. Cuthbert  
(Votary, Communicant)  
_The Quality of a Man is not measured in his Hands or his Heart, but in his Mind  
_**Allies:** Followers of Rao  
**Enemies:** Followers of Iuz, followers of Pholtus   Paladins of St. Cuthbert are forthright and deliberate warriors who seek to apply the common sense and truth embodied in their god’s teachings while combating those who would deceive the good or injure the unenlightened. They are very nearly the classic paladin, but unlike the Heironeous, they place a greater emphasis on the practical and wisdom of their actions and less on the honor or pride either they or society might derive from them. Paladins of St. Cuthbert consider the means as well as the ends—both must be debated and carefully weighed, lest evil gain more by precipitousness than by cautious and decisive action. Once applied to a cause, however, they are swift, valiant, and even ruthless warriors. Paladins of St. Cuthbert tend to value law and rightness more than they appreciate the value of happiness and abundance. Wealth and privilege impress them little, only forthrightness and perspicuity gain their admiration. Some find these paladins severe, even harsh.   St. Cuthbert’s paladins tend to be dour, sober folk, favoring drab clothing and heavy, practical armor with no filigree. The often-repaired (seldom replaced) armor frequently shows signs of battle, including dings and dents. Many Cuthbertines wear a crumpled hat (often made of old leather) atop a suit of plate or chain and a green or russet cloak thrown over their armor. Cuthbertines tend to have long facial hair and a common man’s taste for weed and fermented drinks. They wear no other particular symbols and do not to tend to offer other obvious displays of their association, but instead are well known for keen knowledge, wit, and guile. They typically wield maces, flails, staves, cudgels and other blunted weapons, but are not required to do so.   Since the time when legends record that St. Cuthbert walked Oerth as a mortal man, Cuthbertine clerics have taken it as their duty to spread the word of his practical wisdom to all men. The paladin’s role, however, is not merely to preach but to actively fight enemies of the faith. Common folk, who tend to be most in need of protection, are most drawn to Cuthbert’s dogma, which over the centuries has supplanted the simpler old faiths that once held sway. Paladins of St. Cuthbert are given honorary position in the order of Chapeaux of St. Cuthbert, a wandering sect dedicated to the conversion of non-believers. Due to a distant kinship, Cuthbertines are strong allies of the faith of Rao. Iuz and his followers represent the religion’s greatest nemeses, as St. Cuthbert himself assisted the archmage (and later god) Zagig Yragerne imprison the Old One beneath Castle Greyhawk in 505 CY. Upon his return in 570 CY, the Lord of Pain declared a great vengeance upon St. Cuthbert and his followers, a pronouncement that redoubled the order’s efforts to destroy Iuz and his minions wherever they can be found. Beyond this specific enmity, Cuthbertines also hate those that seek to spread chaos and evil, particularly wizards, demons, and religious sects that rely on ignorance and fear to achieve their goals.   Like their strong-willed god, who still walks the lands of the Flanaess on occasion, paladins of St. Cuthbert proactively assist the world. Most common in the heartlands of Flanaess, their numbers are growing particularly in Furyondy, along the front with Iuz. Faith in the Bandit Kingdoms grows stronger as well, and by some reports followers of St. Cuthbert have been making inroads even in the countryside of the former Great Kingdom. Paladins of St. Cuthbert play a crucial role in spreading the faith, and are most common in lands just beginning to understand the bare truth of the holy cudgel.  

Heironeous
----------

Heironeous  
(Chevalier, Justiciar)  
_Justice Stands on Pillars of Courage and Might  
_**Allies:** Followers of Murlynd, followers of Sten Alia, followers of Rao  
**Enemies:** Followers of Hextor, followers of Iuz   Heironeous counts more Paladin's among their faithful than any other religion and the Flanaess. The **Invincible One's** paladins are lawful and good and the truest meaning of the words, balancing their desire for order with a sense of justice and common weal. Paladins have Heironeous have an unswerving sense of both personal and societal honor, and always try to act in accordance with their precepts. They are unparalled sense of loyalty is matched by bravery and daring that equals their desire to put an end to evil and villainy wherever they find it.   Heironeans has always tries to outfit themselves with the best armor and weaponry available, recognizing that these are the best and most effective tools in accomplishing their goals. Many where ornate armor etched or filigreed with fanciful designs. Heironeans place strong value on heraldic identification, and paladins of the Invincible One endeavor to create a unique identifying device featuring their deeds, national origin, and knightly associations in addition to other ever prominent silverbolt up their God. They favor deep blue and purple when unarmored. Most possess superlative riding skills. All are renowned masters of arms, equal in skill to most Warriors of the Flanaess. Preferring long swords and battle-axes to other weapons.   Heironeans always almost always seek to integrate themselves within society as Knights, soldiers, or political and military leaders. They usually endeavor to respect the chain of command, so long as these directives are not unlawful or do not violate their other tenants. Heironeans tend to build strongholds, raise up armies, and maintain strong ties to the hierarchy of local temples of the faith. Paladin's of Heironeous trace their lineage back to the legendary Arnd and Tdon, who established the first Paladin's of the **Invincible One** among Oeridian tribes ages ago, before the great migrations. Some consider their order of holy Warriors the first true Paladins. These early Oeridian Paladins shrank in number as the Great Kingdom grew more and more decadent, and only a handful of warriors descended from their teachings and organizations remain today. Many Heironeans were expatriated by the independence of the Marklands Kingdoms in the third and fourth common year centuries. Coincidentally, their numbers are strongest in the kingdoms of Furyondy, Nyrond, and other surrounding states.   While not necessarily the most puissant of their number, the king of Furyondy, Belvor IV, is by far the most august of the paladins of Heironeous currently extent in the Flanaess, and he is a corded great deference within the order. The Knights of the Holy Shielding, who helped found the Shield Lands and protect the remains of the Kingdom to this day, comprise the largest single order of heironeous paladins. The Knights of the heart are also boast scores of Heironean paladins, and martial servants of the **Invincible One** are common and almost all of the other lesser orders of Knighthood. It is impossible to overestimate how highly paladins of Heironeous are regarded and general, for they are the prototype for holy warriors everywhere.  

Pholtus
-------

Pholtus  
(Templar, Inquisitor)  
_Our Swords, Their Lives, for the One True Way  
_**Allies:** None.  
**Enemies:** Friends, followers of St. Cuthbert, undead.   Unswerving and righteous guardians of the law and the **One True Way**, Pholtan Paladin's (sometimes called Templars) set their Duty on a pedestal from which it never falters. As paladins, Templars must be lawful, but they consider morality subordinate to the undying light of the **True Way**. They're strict doctrine dictates that chaos, darkness, and evil (in that order) must be routed out and destroyed. The **One True Way** warns that mercy can be weakness, and that doubt is the first nail in the coffin of failure.   Those who worship other gods tend to view Pholtan Paladin's as ostentatious, even haughty individuals. Templars dress impeccably, favoring lighter, ornate armor and carefully crafted, highly polished weapons. They carry Pholus' standard, the Silvery Sun, with great pride (or arrogance, according to their many critics). Most wear white and pale yellow tunics made of the finest linen or silks, embroidered with silvery borders of suns and moons of short lengths of religious script. Common texts, include proverbs drawn directly from the holy texts of Pholtus thought to prevent physical and spiritual harm. Most wield swords or spears, and few follow prohibitions against used using ranged weapons.   For a god defined as "inflexible" by his clergy, Pholtus certainly tolerates a great diversity among his flock. Some paladins of Pholtus resemble Heironeans, while other a adhere to the less ardent philosophy similar to those espoused by holy warriors of Pelor (these are seen as heretical in the Theocracy of the Pale, the chief dominion Pholtus worship in the Flanaess). The Knights of Templar of the Theocracy of the Pale enjoy the great infamy Pholtus' paladins. The Templars possess unparalleled zeal, mixing nationalistic fervor with their conviction of the Perfection of the **One True Way**. Unfortunately for the Flanaess, most Pholtan paladins follow the Templar's steadfast example.   Pholtan's acknowledg no lasting allies among the faithful, but harbor many enemies. An especially strong rivalry with the faith of St. Cuthbert has festered for centuries, as both religions appeal to the same sort of faithful. Pholtus' most powerful Paladin's focus not on ecclesiatical struggles between non-evil religions but on eradicating extraplanar threats such as demons, devils, and their ilk. As a rule, such holy warriors do not fear planar travel and unperturbed by sorcery and Magic artifice alike.  

Trithereon
----------

Trithereon  
(Avengers)  
_Thus Always to Enslavers and Tyrants  
_**Allies:** None  
**Enemies:** Slavers, followers of Hextor, followers of Pholtus, followers of St. Cuthbert   While not true Paladin's, holy liberators dedicated to Trithereon or in are sworn to a single proposition: the complete and uncompromised freedom of the individual from any kind of oppression. Well not large and numbers, the holy warriors of Trithereon are passionate, righteous, and unforgiving foes. They tend to be chaotic as well as good, expecting little hierarchy and eschewing most traditional authority save when they can further their sworn goals and those are the people they seek to protect. These goals usually involve the freedom of some person or persons from physical or spiritual bondage. They also include the paying of revenge on those who would oppress and imprison.   Trithereonites consider law of dubious value and frequently a source of persecution, as is honor, blind piety, and negotiation with oppressors. Avengers of Trithereon (as the holy liberators are known) are quick to take up the sword and quick to apply at once summoned into action. Evil, particularly where it is organized to oppress, has no place in this world.   Advengers of Trithereon value their individuality, no two look and act alike. Many favorite chainmail shirts, leather armor, capes, Jerkins, and pantaloons, but I'll tend to dress in whatever outfit allows them the best chance to succeed at their mission. Many use disguises. Avengers favor light, easy to carry weapon such as short short and daggers. Various sects employ totemic devices such as stylized hounds, Falcons, or Lizards on their clothes and armor. One constant of the Rune of Pursuit, a charm (often made of gold) usually worn around the neck on a on a chain 4 to 6 inches in diameter. Many Avengers and imbue these symbols with magical power, but even non-magical Runes of Pursuit evoke Fear and Loathing in the many an oppressor.   There are some antipathy between Trithereonites and the paladins of St. Cuthbert and Pholtus (particularly the later, from home it is strongly returned) arising from the strictures of their tenants and the relative and flexibility of their faith. No group stokes a Trithereonites ire like slavers, however, especially the Scarlet Brotherhood, who have seen become the greatest slavers in the Finesse. Most holy liberators dedicated to the Trithereon align themselves with one of the three associated organizations.  

*   **The Friends of the Falcon**
*   **The Harrusians**, avenge wrongs committed against the innocent.
*   **The Brothers of Ca'rolk** pledge themselves to succor and protect the weak and the undefended
*   **The Sons of Nemoud** tasks themselves with winning the freedom of those who have been enslaved.

* * *