RP Arrive at The Village of Hommlet
===================================

Your party approaches the Village of Hommlet , having ridden down from the City of Verbobonc. You are poorly mounted, badly equipped, and have no large sums of cash. In fact, all you have is what you wear and what you ride, plus the few coins that is hidden in pouches and pockets. What you do possess in quantity, though, is daring and desire to become wealthy and famous. Thus your group came to Hommlet to learn. Was this indeed a place for adventurers to seek their fortunes? You all hoped, of course, to gain riches and make names for yourselves. The outcome of this is uncertain, but your skill and daring, along with a good measure of luck, would be the main ingredients of what follows, be it for weal or woe.   The small community at the crossroads is a completely unknown quantity. What was there? Who would be encountered? Where should you go? These were your first explorations and encounters, so chance may dictate as much as intelligence. Would outsiders be shunned? Were the reports true—was the whole community engaged in evil practices? Were the folk here bumpkins, easily duped? Did a curse lay upon those who dared to venture into the lands which were once the Temple's? All of these questions would soon be answered.   The dusty, rutted road is lined with closely-grown hedges of brambles and shrubs. Here and there it cut through a copse or crosses a rivulet. To either hand, forest and meadow had given way to field and orchard. A small herd of kine grazes nearby, and a distant hill is dotted with the wand stone chimneys with thin plumes of blue smoke rising from them. A road angled south into the hill country, and to either side of the road ahead are barns and buildings—Hommlet at last!  

#### The adventure begins...

  As you travel through the heartland of the viscounty the merchant road runs along the Nigb, passing between cultivated fields. At this time of the year, some of the fields have dense green plants covered with beans or peas. The wheat and oat fields are ready for planting. Very few plots lie fallow, unplowed or unplanted, with only a tangle Of weeds growing on them. Many commoners work the fields. You see two or three men, plowing with big tawny oxen. One leads the animal and the others follow behind, manipulating the plow and burying seeds carried in a cloth shoulder bag. Elsewhere, chopping out weeds and picking off bugs, you see women with their heads wrapped in patterned scarves, carrying woven baskets on their backs and flanked by children. They rarely seem to notice you, But when they do, they look up nervous for bandits, then they quickly drop their eyes and go back to work. The warm sun is making its way slowly towards the horizon, the few thin strips of clouds turning a shimmering gold. A weary travelers’ only thoughts are of a comfortable bed and a warm meal, both of which could surely be found at the local inn. The distant sounds of dogs barking and people working echoes through the quiet hommlet.   You make your way along the dusty road, traveling north into Hommlet. To the west you passed a well cared for wood and plaster farmhouse with a large barn, filled with hay, grain. To the east is another well kept farm with a stone cottage and barn, not as large as their neighbor, but still appearing to be doing well. Continuing to the north, there is another prosperous farm cottage to the west and a larger home to the east. The house to the east has a large leather hide tacked to the front door, clearly indicating the owner is a leather-worker. Behind the house is a large grove of oak trees.   As your group moves north along the road you can see your destination is not far off. From the entrance to the village it is clear which building is the inn. Just as the road turned to the east sat a large, two story wooden building. Swaying slowly in the breeze is a large square sign showing a buxom and smiling girl holding a flagon of beer. This must be the _Inn of the Welcome Wench_, a place renowned for its good food and excellent drink! Passing merchants make a point of stopping, as do many other sorts of wayfarers, and it is said that the place is always filled with patrons. To the east, you can hear the distinct sounds of hammer hitting an anvil and the tale-tell puffs of black smoke rising from the building just across the dirt road.   **If group has horses**  
When your group passes through the fenced entry yard of the inn, a young man and a younger boy steps out from the stables to the west and approach your group. The young man steps forward with a lopsided smile and takes hold of the bridle of the closest horse, _"Ya’ll visit’n the inn? Let me take them mounts, we’ll feed an water em fer ya."_ The young groom hands the reins to the stable boy and waits for everyone to dismount with an open hand. "That will be 1 silver piece each masters". The two then led the horses over to the stables for some hay and water.   Your group steps up on the porch and open the front door of the inn, the smell of roasted venison and poached salmon wafts around you. The common room is large, bright and cheerful, with an sizable stone fireplace burning against the northern wall. The room contains several rough-hewn tables and chairs, boards, and benches. Natural tree trunk pillars supported the ceiling overhead, all dark with smoke and age. The common room is sparsely populated even as evening draws near, with about ten patrons seated at various tables around the room. A few of the patrons looked to be locals, wearing simple farmer’s garb and commoners clothing. The others look to be travelers, merchants and peddlers, stopping at the inn for food and rest before continuing on their journeys.   **NPC's**  

> Seated at one of the tables alone is a tall, thin man, probably in his late twenties, focused on his dinner plate, which looked to be some type of fish. There is a glass flagon, filled with white wine, sitting on the table as well. The man’s clothing is nondescript, consisting of a simple brown traveling cloak over some tan trousers and a tunic. Seated at another table, along with a couple of locals, is a man dressed in a brown leather jerkin and pants, with a black cloak slung over his shoulders. He is smiling and tossing dice into a tray, talking jovially to the two men. silver and copper coins piled on the table while the two merchants stare with excitement and greed at the dice. Standing at the bar, swaying slightly, is a man wearing a dirty brown tunic and blue trousers. He holds a leather jack, filled with ale, that spills out on the flour with every movement he makes.

  **InnKeeper**  

> Behind the bar is a portly, bald man, wearing a white apron over bright a blue tunic. The man is busily wiping down the bar when he notices your group enter the inn.   "Ho, welcome to the Inn of the Welcome Wench," the man said as he waves his arm towards the common room, "Come in, come in. I am Ostler Gundigoot, proprietor. Whatever you need, just ask." Ostler points to the large casks behind the bar, "I have some of the finest ale and beer around. We have wines and liquor, whatever your taste is. My wife makes some of the best roast venison and mutton, just falls off the bone. Why, once I had some and I couldn’t get any of it up to my mouth. It would just fall off my fork before I got it an inch off the plate. Had to put the plate to my mouth and just scoop it all in." Ostler laughs loudly as he holds his belly, "So, have a seat or step up to the bar and tell me what you would like."

Ostler nodded in greeting, "_It is a pleasure to meet you **\*\*PC\*\***. I wish more people had your self-control,"_ he said as he gestured towards the swaying man leaning against the bar a few feet away. _"What kind of inn would this be without milk? So, a plate of mutton and some cheese… will get that order in right away."_   Ostler turned to **\*\*PC\*\*** as he ordered, _"Ah, some of the local house wine, yes. We have quite an extensive wine cellar, with Keoish, Sundish, Urnst, Celene, Furyondian, and Velunan, along with our house wine. A glass of house and some venison, right."_ Ostler waved at one of the serving girls to come to the bar. Ostler wagged his finger in **\*\*PC’s\*\*** direction.   **Bandits**  

> "Ah, I thought as much. Adventurers huh, well there’s been some trouble with bandits in the area. Don’t know much about it, only what I hear around town, but the braumeister, Virgil Tamen, has complained some. I think he had a shipment hijacked or something, you can ask him about it. Also, the Cannon Terjon, the head priest at the Church of St. Cuthbert up on hill, has expressed a desire to rid the area of the bandits. You might talk to the folks up at the church as well."

  The serving girl approached the bar and Ostler began relaying the orders, he pointed in **\*\*PC\*\*** direction, _"Another glass of house, and some venison with bread. Very good, very good."_ He then motioned towards **\*\*PC\*\***, _"Ale for our **\*\*PC-race\*\*** friend, along with another plate of venison"_   With the first orders made, the serving girl rushed off to the kitchen. Ostler turned to the remain two of the group, _"Can I get you gentlemen anything?"_   Ostler reached under the bar, pulling out a clear bottle filled with a red liquid and two crystal goblets. He set the goblets in front of **\*\*PC's\*\***l, quickly uncorking the bottle and pouring out its contents into the two goblets. He then moved back by one of the large kegs, taking a pewter stein and filling it with the dark, foamy liquid. He brought the stein back and set it before **\*\*PC\*\***.   _"Yes, we have some fine beer. If you should want for some of the finer liquor, we have Ulek whiskey, an aged single malt, a local brandy, brandy from Keoish and a special aged brandy from Urnst."_ He pulled a leather jack from under the bar and moved over to one of the other keg barrels, pouring out some of the golden brew and returning to hand it to **\*\*PC\*\***.   **Rooms**

> " ...and you’ll be needing rooms. Well, right now I have five private rooms and eight beds in the dormitory that are open. For the rooms, I have a private suite, that includes breakfast, for 5 gold a night. Two large rooms, with two beds, for 2 gold and 5 silver a night. A large room with a single bed for 2 gold a night. A small room with a single bed for 1 gold a night. If you just need a bed to sleep in, the dormitory beds are only 5 copper a night and there is fresh tea and bread to eat and clean towels and warm water in the morning."

  **Rumors**

> "Yep, there have been more and more reports of bandit activity around the area," Ostler said in response to Sameer’s question, "Thankfully they haven’t been cropping up in town, but it’s probably just a matter of time. I don’t know much, just some ale taken from Virgil Tamen’s shipment; he’s at the brewery up the hill on the west side of town. Oh, he’s got a special ale with a huge toasted malt flavor balanced by assertive hoppiness. The finish is long and lingering with the malt and hop notes blending with alcohol warmth." Ostler’s eyes closed as he shook his head, his face an expression of enjoyment, "Mmmmm, that’s some good stuff." He opened his eyes, returning from his revelry, "Well, if you want to help with the bandits you should see Virgil, and probably Terjon up at the church, they may have more information."

* * *