Temple of the Wasp
==================

The fellowship of Bralm is well known and influential among the citizens of the Western Gate. The work ethic of the Dyversians is a perfect match for the dogma of the Suel goddess. The Temple of the Wasp has become a mainstay of religious life for many and services on holy days are always well attended. Most of Bralm's followers are from the lower classes, but nearly all pay some sort of reverence. They pay homage to the goddess, not for their own sake, but so those they depend on do not succumb to sloth.   The temple itself is somewhat of an oddity. One of the larger complexes in the city, it stands out in its composition. The temple is a semi-domed structure. The interior is divided into a series of honey-combed chambers radiating around a central altar room. The high ceiling lofts are open and covered by pale cloth canopies. Wasps and hornets often nest in these places. The walls are crafted of heavy clay and sandstone. Viewed from above, one might say the design borrows much from the temple's namesake insect.   The Temple of the Wasp is served by thirty four priests. Only a fourth of these are ever in the temple at any one time during the daily services. The rest busy themselves with errands and assignments throughout the city; collecting alms and assisting in various labors. There is a strict daily routine required of the priests, including attending morning services, work in the temple gardens, and attending functions throughout the city.   A strict heirarchy and system of manners are followed. Priests of Bralm always walk single file, and on special occassions long processions of these fallow garbed folk can be seen winding through the streets in prayer. Dress is minimalistic and bland, and hair is kept cropped just below the neck for men and women alike. Many services and rituals center around deprivation of niceties like sleep, speech, touching, and various forms of comfort. In this way, priests show their unswerving discipline in the light of hardship. While similar demands are placed on those worshippers who attend services, they are not nearly as extreme. Entering the Temple of the Wasp as a priest is not a popular career.   It is considered proper and respectful for a priest of Bralm to bless the first day of any construction efforts in Dyvers. The priest officiates over a brief ceremony before work begins, and is an active participant throughout the day, working amongst overseers and laymen alike. This practice is the same for any building, whether homesteads or keeps. Such blessings ensure the hasty completion of the task, and protect the workers against injuries and accidents. As such, many guilds try to keep good relations with the priests of Bralm.   The high priestess is a woman named Einsha (Pr14). She is an elderly woman with hardened skin and calloused hands. No one, not even her fellow priests are exactly sure of her age, but she is said to have taught some of the city elders their letters when they were young. Despite her age, she continues to work among the temple gardens and bee hives. She has also taught reading and writing to both rich and poor alike. A strict teacher, it is a mark of pride to have been taught by her, and many noble families have attempted to bring the Temple to favor their own children. This is a futile effort where the high priestess is concerned. Einsha is known and respected throughout Dyvers. She is attended by a single acolyte. The old priestess has an uncanny endurance for one of her years, which she attributes to two drafts of cod oil that she takes daily, as she believes it cleanses and renews her physically   The temple is an oddity to many visitors, as worship of Bralm is in large part limited to southern portions of the United Kingdom of Ahlissa and small parts of the Urnst provinces. The temple regularly receives missionaries and pilgrims from these places, some coming so far to seek the blessings of High Priestess Einsha.   The Temple of the Wasp possesses a few minor relics of Bralm. Einsha herself carries the Crook of St. Faustous, a well known figure in the texts of Bralm. With this staff, the high priest can summon a swarm of giant wasps to defend the temple from invaders. This device is highly sought after by temples in the United Kingdom of Ahlissa, but Einsha is hesitant to part with it. Her attachment strikes many of her associates as odd, but they assume Einsha has her reasons.   The temple also possesses the Bowl of Wondrous Invention. A drink from this bowl fills the mind with fantastic ideas, concepts, and inventions. The bowl has been in the temple for so many years, its power has begun to influence those who live and work in the immediate area. These Dyversians, ordinary in most respects, are becoming obsessed with their own small inventions. These range from elaborate rope and pulley systems which cool their homes and open their door to small clockwork devices to carry messages back and forth. In every case, the drive to create has become overwhelming. Despite these wondrous creations, few people have been inclined to reveal them to more than a few close friends, and so their inventions have gone mostly unnoticed. The priests of the temple do not seem to be affected by this power, perhaps because of their close affinity with Bralm.

**Type**

Temple / Church

**Additional Rulers/Owners**

*   [Bralm](bralm-person.md)

* * *