The Shrine of Absolution
========================

In the day to day life of the City of Sails, the promise of Zodal plays a very small role. How could it be otherwise in a city whose soul is ruthless entrepreanurism and competition? Despite this, the priesthood at the Shrine of Absolution is among the most active sects in the city proper. They are small, but far reaching, and are in good relations with most other faiths, who recognize the aims of this fellowship and would see its intentions prosper.   The shrine lies on the fringes between the main commercial district and one of the poorer districts of the city. It is a fine place, though not outstanding. Its grounds support a large garden in which the priests grow their own food. Everything is done by their hand, and only simple tools are used, for no creature who live in the garden must suffer for the benefit of the priests. These would include birds and the few stray cats as likely as earthworms. Man, it is believed by the fellowship, is by his nature beyond the natural order of things, and thus to take at the loss of another is to debase the purity of the spirit. So he who is true to Zodal does not feast on the flesh of animals, nor make his fortune on the backs of his fellow man.   The priests of Zodal dress in formal regalia, robes of white with gold trim, only on holy days. Their normal working garb is only little better than a peasant's. They are among the most humble faiths operating in Dyvers. Perhaps this is why they are so often overlooked by the populace. Theirs is a monastic order, and includes a vow of poverty and celibacy. The priesthood has a very loose hierarchy, with each sharing in the day-to-day chores of the shrine. All are encouraged to speak their mind, to find their own equilibrium, and to share their findings with their fellow priests. The doctrine of Zodal is highly philosophical, and can take a lifetime to master. The high priest is a tall man with sandy hair and a crooked nose named Soldin (P6). He grew up among the street gangs and was blinded in a rumble as a young man. Afterward, he was raised in the shrine's orphanage, where he was first exposed to the teachings of Zodal. While he is not conscientious of his appearance, he is aware it makes other uncomfortable and so chooses to wear a white cloth bound as a blindfold. He still bears the scars and tattoos of his youth and makes no apologies for them.   The Shrine of Absolution holds services at sunrise and sunset, welcoming day and night with similar ceremonies. These are lightly attended by citizens, most of whom are seeking peace of mind or wish to pray for the well-being of a troubled (or ill) family member. The majority of the priests' duties lie in the shrine's other properties, an orphanage and a hospice. The latter was a product of Soldin's leadership, and is owned in conjunction with the temple of Pelor. These properties are not lavish or extravagant, but are kept clean and sanitary by the priests. At least one is found in these places at all hours of the day, usually as many as five during the daylight hours.   Zodal's priests tend to shun the politics of the city, as political aims are somewhat contradictory of Zodal's doctrine. This has not set well with all the priests, however. In recent years, a splinter faction of the Shrine of Absolution, headed by a proud young priestess named Renije (P3), has broken off from the main priesthood. They believe Dyvers has become too emeshed in its own self importance. The only way to combat this, they feel is to engage in city politics - a concept that is distasteful to the tenets of Zodal. Naturally, the rest of Zodal's fellowship does not support their efforts, and believe these upstarts are flirting with blasphemy.   The Shrine of Absolution possesses no outstanding relics of any sort.

**Type**

Shrine

**Owner**

[Zodal](zodal-person.md)

* * *