Travel to Hommlet rain
======================

Leaving the grim battle scene behind, your party marches along the merchant road as the sun is setting to the west behind the Lortmils. In the heavens above, Celene is now hidden behind Luna hovering in the sky with its luminous glow. You know that the lesser Moon, Celene, follows a path that reveals her full beauty but four times each year which will not happen for another week.  

#### Later afternoon Storm

As the afternoon progressed, clouds build. Towering gray clouds cover the westerly sun. Flowing down from the snow capped Lortmills the clouds fill the sky. The wind picks up, and soon it is blowing very strongly. If your hat is not tied on, it will blow off. Although it is still day, it gets very dark. You can see lightning jumping between the clouds and hear the thunder. As the storm reaches you, you are pounded by hail the size of cherries, beating down on you. The lightning cracks overhead, lighting the sky as bright as daylight for a few seconds. Then the dark descends again and the thunder shakes the very air. Sheets of rain pour down, blinding everyone. Water gets into everything, making pools in even slight depressions in your garments and gear. After about a quarter hour it lessens to a steady rainfall. Then the wind drives the storm onward and the clouds overhead start to break up. The late sun shines on you with water dripping off all of your gear as you follow the muddy, rutted road lined with closely-grown hedges of wet brambles and shrubs dripping into the ground. To either hand, forest and meadow had given way to fields. A small herd of kine huddles nearby, and a distant hill is dotted with the wand stone chimneys with thin plumes of blue smoke rising from them. A road angled south into the hill country, and to either side of the road ahead are barns and buildings—Hommlet at last!   You make your way along the High road, traveling into Village of Hommlet . To the west you passed a well cared for wood and plaster farmhouse with a large barn, filled with hay, grain. To the east is another well kept farm with a stone cottage and barn, not as large as their neighbor, but still appearing to be doing well. Continuing to the north, there is another prosperous farm cottage to the west and a larger home to the east. The house to the east has a large leather hide tacked to the front door, clearly indicating the owner is a leather-worker. Behind the house is a large grove of oak trees. In all, it seems that the locals have closed their doors and windows against the weather.   As your group moves north along the road you can see your destination is not far off. From the entrance to the village it is clear which building is the inn. Just as the road turned to the east sits a large, two story wooden building. Swaying slowly in the breeze is a large square sign showing a buxom and smiling girl holding a flagon of beer. This must be the Inn of the Welcome Wench, a place renowned for its good food and excellent drink! Passing merchants make a point of stopping, as do many other sorts of wayfarers, and it is said that the place is always filled with patrons. To the east, you can hear the distinct sounds of hammer hitting an anvil and the tale-tell puffs of black smoke rising from the building just across the dirt road.  

#### Arrival at the Inn of the Welcome Wench

When your group passes through the fenced entry yard of the inn, a young man and a younger boy steps out from the stables to the west and approach your group. The young man steps forward with a lopsided smile and takes hold of the bridle of the closest horse, "Ya’ll visit’n the inn? Let me take them mounts, we’ll feed an water em fer ya." The young groom hands the reins to the stable boy and waits for everyone to dismount with an open hand. "That will be 1 silver piece each masters". The two then led the horses over to the stables for some hay and water.   Your group steps up on the porch and open the front door of the inn, the smell of roasted venison and poached salmon wafts around you. The common room is large, bright and cheerful, with an sizable stone fireplace burning against the northern wall. The room contains several rough-hewn tables and chairs, boards, and benches. Natural tree trunk pillars supported the ceiling overhead, all dark with smoke and age. The common room is sparsely populated even as evening draws near, with about ten patrons seated at various tables around the room. A few of the patrons looked to be locals, wearing simple farmer’s garb and commoners clothing. The others look to be travelers, merchants and peddlers, stopping at the inn for food and rest before continuing on their journeys.   Seated at one of the tables alone is a tall, thin man, probably in his late twenties, focused on his dinner plate, which looked to be some type of fish. There is a glass flagon, filled with white wine, sitting on the table as well. The man’s clothing is nondescript, consisting of a simple brown traveling cloak over some tan trousers and a tunic. Your group recognize him as Spugnois whom Mascus did some business with while last in town.   Seated at another table, along with a couple of locals, you recognize Furnok. He is a man dressed in a brown leather jerkin and pants, with a black cloak slung over his shoulders. He is smiling and tossing dice into a tray, talking jovially to the two men. silver and copper coins piled on the table while the two merchants stare with excitement and greed at the dice.   At another table is a hulking fighter, Kobort by name wearing splint mail and with a greatsword strapped across his back, and his associate, a small and thin un-armoured fellow called Turuko , a Bakluni from unknown parts. 'Something must be done soon!'   Standing at the bar, swaying slightly, is a man wearing a dirty brown tunic and blue trousers. He holds a leather jack, filled with ale, that spills out on the flour with every movement he makes. This is Elmo   Also, at the bar is Dalat Thunderock (NE male dwarf warrior 2) is a dwarf with no left arm, having lost it at the elbow in a long ago battle. He is dressed in chain armour and carries a many notched battleaxe on his back. A dented steel helm. Dalat has no sense of right or wrong and is looking for anyway to get ahead. While he quickly sizes up the PCs as being too strong for him to attack, he offers to join them in hopes robbing them in the future   Behind the bar is a portly, bald man, wearing a white apron over bright a blue tunic. The man is busily wiping down the bar when he notices your group enter the inn.  

Barkeeper Gundigoot
-------------------

"Ho, welcome to the Inn of the Welcome Wench," the man said as he waves his arm towards the common room, "Come in, come in. I am Ostler Gundigoot, proprietor. Whatever you need, just ask." Ostler points to the large casks behind the bar, "I have some of the finest ale and beer around. We have wines and liquor, whatever your taste is. My wife makes some of the best roast venison and mutton, just falls off the bone. Why, once I had some and I couldn’t get any of it up to my mouth. It would just fall off my fork before I got it an inch off the plate. Had to put the plate to my mouth and just scoop it all in." Ostler laughs loudly as he holds his belly, "So, have a seat or step up to the bar and tell me what you would like."   "Ah, some of the local house wine, yes. We have quite an extensive wine cellar, with Keoish, Sundish, Urnst, Celene, Furyondian, and Velunan, along with our house wine.   "Yes, we have some fine beer. If you should want for some of the finer liquor, we have Ulek whiskey, an aged single malt, a local brandy, brandy from Keoish and a special aged brandy from Urnst."  

#### Rooms

" ...and you’ll be needing rooms. Well, right now I have five private rooms and eight beds in the dormitory that are open. For the rooms, I have a private suite, that includes breakfast, for 5 gold a night. Two large rooms, with two beds, for 2 gold and 5 silver a night. A large room with a single bed for 2 gold a night. A small room with a single bed for 1 gold a night. If you just need a bed to sleep in, the dormitory beds are only 5 copper a night and there is fresh tea and bread to eat and clean towels and warm water in the morning."

* * *